Add React Native Mobile and Auth Blog Post (#75)
ory/web: src/pages/blog/kratos-react-native.mdx

[Apple App Store](https://apps.apple.com/fj/app/ory-profile-app/id1536546333) or
the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ory.kratos_self_service_ui_react_native)! You can also check out the source
code of our
[ORY Kratos React Native reference implementation](https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native).
This guide covers how you would start such a project from scratch.

:::

## Auth, Login, Registration, User Management React Native Template for Expo

This guide assumes that you have worked with React and React Native before as we
will not cover React fundamentals and focus mostly on implementing login,
registration, and so on.

To make things a bit easier, we will use [`expo`](https://expo.io). At minimum,
you need NodeJS and NPM installed locally. We will use the ORY Kratos React
Native Login, Registration, and Profile Management template:

```shell-session
$ npm install -g expo-cli
$ expo init login-signup-app -t @oryd/expo-login-registration-template

# We also want to install and initialize all required components:
$ cd login-signup-app
~/login-signup-app$ npm run expo-install

> ~/login-signup-app$ npm run pod-install

Reviewer: A comment further down suggests this step is only necessary for iOS?
```suggestion
# For iOS you also need to run:
~/login-signup-app$ npm run pod-install
```

```

If you want to just start exploring, you can now simply run:

- `npm start` opens a dashboard where you can open iOS, Android, or web.
- `npm run android` opens the app as an android app.
- `npm run ios` opens the app in the iOS simulator.

> - `npm run web` opens the app as a browser app.

Author: https://github.com/ory-corp/cloud/ishttps://github.com/ory-corp/cloud/issues/372sues/372

![Expo CLI Dashboard for ORY Kratos React Native Reference Implementation](../../images/articles/react-native/expo-dashboard.png)

Running these commands directly will use our hosted demo environment of ORY
Kratos at
[demo.tenants.staging.oryapis.dev](https://demo.tenants.staging.oryapis.dev).
This is configured in `app.config.js`:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="js"
  title="app.config.js"
  src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/master/app.config.js"

> />

Author: I don't understand?

> />

Reviewer: When I open the file in my local copy while going step by step through the guide, it looks different because there where changes on master since the last release. And I have the last release locally.

> />

Author: Got it!

> />

Author: release is out

[ORY Kratos](https://www.ory.sh/kratos) locally and run the quickstart:

```shell-session
$ git clone https://github.com/ory/kratos.git
$ cd kratos
$ git checkout v0.5.4-alpha.1
$ docker-compose -f quickstart.yml -f quickstart-standalone.yml \
    up --build --force-recreate -d
```

Next you need a tool like [`ngrok`](https://ngrok.com) to set up port forwarding
for the ORY Kratos Docker Image you just started:

```shell-session
$ ngrok http 4433

Account                       ...
Version                       ...
Region                        ...
Web Interface                 ...
Forwarding                    ...
Forwarding                    https://04ee3e08367a.ngrok.io -> http://localhost:4433

Connections                   ttl     opn     rt1     rt5     p50     p90
                              0       0       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
```

Copy the HTTPS forwarding URL (example from above
`https://04ee3e08367a.ngrok.io`) and set it, in a new terminal, as an
environment variable and start the app:

```shell-session
# Change into the directory of your react native app:
$ cd login-signup-app
$ KRATOS_URL=<the-ngrok-url> start
# For example:

> # $ export KRATOS_URL=https://04ee3e08367a.ngrok.io

Author: ```suggestion
# $ KRATOS_URL=https://04ee3e08367a.ngrok.io npm start
```

```

### React Native Environment Variable Support

Next we want to set up support for environment variables which we will be using
in the next section. You can either
[follow the Expo guide on Environment Variables](https://docs.expo.io/guides/environment-variables/#using-babel-to-replace-variables)
or do the following:

```shell-session
$ expo install expo-constants
```

Create a file called `app.config.js` in the project's root:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="js"
  title="app.config.js"
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/app.config.js"
/>

You can use this variable when initializing the ORY Kratos SDK:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="tsx"
  title="src/helpers/sdk.tsx"
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/helpers/sdk.tsx"
/>

### Fonts and Other Dependencies

To make things a bit prettier, we are going to add some fonts and the
[ORY Theme](https://github.com/ory/themes):

```shell-session
$ npm install @oryd/themes styled-components
$ expo install expo font @expo-google-fonts/rubik \
    @expo-google-fonts/roboto expo-status-bar
```

You are of course free to use your own themes here but for the sake of

> completeness we added this to the guide.

Reviewer 2: Short conclusion similar to the previous blogposts.

```suggestion
completeness we added this to the guide.

### Conclusion 

We have now implemented ORY Kratos Login, Registration and 2FA Server in React Native!

Thanks for taking the time to follow this guide and hopefully it helps you build secure apps more smoothly.  
Should you have further questions or feedback, visit the [community forum](https://community.ory.sh/) or [chat](https://www.ory.sh/chat).

ORY Kratos is open-source and freely available on [github](https://github.com/ory/kratos), please consider starring the repository.  
It is free and helps grow the project and community.

Sign up to [our newsletter](https://ory.us10.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=ffb1a878e4ec6c0ed312a3480&id=f605a41b53) to be notified of new updates to ORY Kratos and other ORY projects.
```

---
path: '/mobile-desktop-app-auth-login-registration-react-native-open-source-guide/'

title: |

>   Authentication and Profile Management in React Native Mobile and Desktop Apps

Author: Hm true, unfortunately this depends on the screen size so it is hard to fix!

teaser: |
  Implement your own auth, login, registration, user and profile management for native mobile
  and desktop apps using React Native and ORY Kratos Open Source. With code examples in TypeScript
  and Docker.

seo:
  title: |
    Add Auth, Login, Registration to Your Native, Mobile, React Native App
  keywords: |
    login, auth, authentication, registration, react native, native mobile, native desktop,
    open source

publishedAt: '2020-11-20'
author: aeneasr

overline: |
  React Native Authentication
---

import CodeFromRemote from '../../components/codefromremote'
import login from '../../images/articles/react-native/login.png'
import registration from '../../images/articles/react-native/registration.png'
import dashboard from '../../images/articles/react-native/dashboard.png'
import settings from '../../images/articles/react-native/settings.png'

> This guide explains how to implement login, registration, logout, profile
> management, password change, and many other profile-related flows in React
> Native using the open source [ORY Kratos](https://www.ory.sh/kratos) project
> step-by-step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide explains step-by-step how to implement login, registration, logout, profile
management, password change, and many other profile-related flows in React
Native using the open source [ORY Kratos](https://www.ory.sh/kratos) project.
```

<div className="container-fluid">
  <div className="row justify-center-sm">
    <div className="col-sm-3">
      <p>
        <img
          alt="React Native Mobile App with Login using ORY Kratos"
          src={login}
        />
      </p>
    </div>
    <div className="col-sm-3">
      <p>
        <img
          alt="React Native Mobile App with Registration using ORY Kratos"
          src={registration}
        />
      </p>
    </div>
    <div className="col-sm-3">
      <p>
        <img
          alt="React Native Mobile App with User Dashboard using ORY Kratos"
          src={dashboard}
        />
      </p>
    </div>
    <div className="col-sm-3">
      <p>
        <img
          alt="React Native Mobile App with Profile Settings using ORY Kratos"
          src={settings}
        />
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

In the future, this guide will also cover Two-Factor-Authentication (2FA/MFA),
"Sign in with Google", password reset, email verification, phone number and SMS

> verification, "Sign in with GitHub", "Sign in with Facebook", and many other

Reviewer 4: verification, "Sign in with GitHub", "Sign in with Facebook" and many other

flows.

:::note

> If you just want to check out the app, download it from the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to check out the app, download it from the
```
qualifier

> [Apple App Store](https://apps.apple.com/fj/app/ory-profile-app/id1536546333) or

Author: Please track as an individual issue in: https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-react-nativehttps://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native

the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ory.kratos_self_service_ui_react_native)! You can also check out the source
code of our
[ORY Kratos React Native reference implementation](https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native).
This guide covers how you would start such a project from scratch.

:::

> ## Auth, Login, Registration, User Management React Native Template for Expo

Reviewer 3: Same as first comment above:

As it appears in the preview, 'React' and 'Native' appear on separate lines. I think this would look better if 'React Native' was all on one line. Mostly aesthetic but I think it reads smoother this way.

This guide assumes that you have worked with React and React Native before as we

> will not cover React fundamentals and focus mostly on implementing login,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will not cover React fundamentals and focus on implementing login,
```
avoid adverbs

registration, and so on.

To make things a bit easier, we will use [`expo`](https://expo.io). At minimum,
you need NodeJS and NPM installed locally. We will use the ORY Kratos React
Native Login, Registration, and Profile Management template:

```shell-session
$ npm install -g expo-cli
$ expo init login-signup-app -t @oryd/expo-login-registration-template

# We also want to install and initialize all require components:
$ cd login-signup-app
~/login-signup-app$ npm run expo-install
~/login-signup-app$ npm run pod-install
```

> If you want to just start exploring, you can now simply run:

Reviewer 2: I would suggest: 
```suggestion
To start exploring, run:
```
no adverbs, strong language

- `npm start` opens a dashboard where you can open iOS, Android, or web.
- `npm run android` opens the app as an android app.
- `npm run ios` opens the app in the iOS simulator.
- `npm run web` opens the app as a browser app.

![Expo CLI Dashboard for ORY Kratos React Native Reference Implementation](../../images/articles/react-native/expo-dashboard.png)

Running these commands directly will use our hosted demo environment of ORY
Kratos at
[demo.tenants.staging.oryapis.dev](https://demo.tenants.staging.oryapis.dev).

> This is configured in `app.config.js`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure this in `app.config.js`:
```
Use active voice

Forwarding                    https://04ee3e08367a.ngrok.io -> http://localhost:4433

Connections                   ttl     opn     rt1     rt5     p50     p90
                              0       0       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
```

Copy the HTTPS forwarding URL (example from above
`https://04ee3e08367a.ngrok.io`) and set it, in a new terminal, as an
environment variable and start the app:

```shell-session
# Change into the directory of your react native app:
$ cd login-signup-app
$ KRATOS_URL=<the-ngrok-url> start
# For example:
# $ export KRATOS_URL=https://04ee3e08367a.ngrok.io
```

Now, your app will use the local deployment of ORY Kratos with your own
database!

## React Native Navigation with Authentication Session

The entrypoint for the app is
[`App.tsx`](https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/App.tsx).
Besides loading some fonts and setting up the views, this component includes the
structure of the application - including the navigation:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="javascript"
  title="App.tsx"
  startAt="export default"
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/App.tsx"
/>

> The most interesting component here is probably the `<AuthProvider>`. This

Reviewer 2: I would suggest 
```suggestion
The most interesting component here is the `<AuthProvider>`. This
```
avoid adverbs, use strong verbs

> components adds an authentication / login context to the React Native component

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
component adds an authentication / login context to the React Native component
```

tree:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="javascript"
  title="src/components/AuthProvider.tsx"
  startAt="export default"
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/components/AuthProvider.tsx"
/>

The helper methods in
[`src/helpers/auth.tsx`](https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/helpers/auth.tsx)
are simple wrappers around Expo's
[SecureStore](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/sdk/securestore/). In order
to work on the web as well, we use `@react-native-community/async-storage` as a
fallback:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="javascript"
  title="src/helpers/auth.tsx"
  startAt="// getAuthenticatedSession"
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/helpers/auth.tsx"
/>

> That's all the magic! Everything else is handled by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's all it takes to make the magic happen! 
```

> [ORY Kratos' Session Token](https://www.ory.sh/kratos/docs/guides/login-session).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [ORY Kratos' Session Token](https://www.ory.sh/kratos/docs/guides/login-session) handles everything else.
```
Use active voice

> We now have a place to store and refresh the user session. And we have a way to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We now have a place to store and refresh the user session. In addition, we have a way to
```

Not idea to start a sentence with 'And...'

> We now have a place to store and refresh the user session. And we have a way to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We now have a place to store and refresh the user session. We also have a way to
```
even simpler

see if the user session is still active in the navigation and show the dashboard
or login / registration screens:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="javascript"
  title="src/components/Navigation.tsx"
  startAt="export default"
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/components/Navigation.tsx#L39-L9999"
/>

## React Native Screens

> Let's take a look at the different screens! In order to not write a form

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at the different screens: In order for us to not write a form
```

> Let's take a look at the different screens! In order to not write a form

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at the different screens: To not write a form
```
simplify

> renderer for every component, including styling, we abstracted the form

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
renderer for every component - including styling - we abstracted the form
```

rendering into their own components, which you can find in
[`src/components/Form`](https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/tree/master/src/components/Form).

> There isn't anything special happening there, but you can give it a look if you

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There isn't anything special happening there, but you can have a look if you
```

> intend on changing the layout for example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
intend to change the layout for example.
```

> intend on changing the layout for example.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
are intent on changing the layout for example.
```

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="javascript"
  title="src/components/Routes/Registration.tsx"
  startAt="const Registration ="
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/components/Routes/Registration.tsx"
/>

### Home Navigation Component

The Home component receives the user's authentication session and displays all
relevant information. To learn more about ORY Kratos' Identity and User
Management check out the
[ORY Kratos Identity Data Model](https://www.ory.sh/kratos/docs/concepts/identity-data-model).

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="javascript"
  title="src/components/Routes/Home.tsx"
  startAt="const Home ="
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/components/Routes/Home.tsx"
/>

### Settings Navigation Component

The User Settings component performs a
[User Settings API Flow](https://www.ory.sh/kratos/docs/self-service/flows/user-settings).

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="javascript"
  title="src/components/Routes/Settings.tsx"
  startAt="const Settings ="
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/components/Routes/Settings.tsx"
/>

> ## Writing Login and Registration React Native App From Scratch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Writing Login and Registration for a React Native App From Scratch
```

> Using a template is the easiest way to get started. If you wish to understand

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Granted, using a template is the easiest way to get started. However, understanding how everything works is better.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Granted, using a template is the easiest way to get started. But understanding how everything works is better.
```
simple language

> how everything works however, let's have a look at the project set up process!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Let's have a look at the project set up process!
```

> Here, we assume that you ran `expo init` with one of the default templates:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Assuming that you ran `expo init` with one of the default templates:
```

```shell-session
$ expo init login-signup-app
```

### React Native Navigation

To set up screen navigation, we use the standard React Native navigation
component:

```shell-session
$ npm add @react-navigation/native @react-navigation/stack
$ expo install react-native-reanimated react-native-gesture-handler react-native-screens react-native-safe-area-context @react-native-community/masked-view
```

### React Native / Expo Encrypted Credentials Storage

We will use
[`expo-secure-store`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/sdk/securestore/) to
securely store the user's session key in the encrypted device store (Android
Keystore / Expo Secure Store). To install it we need to run:

```shell-session
$ expo install expo-secure-store @react-native-community/async-storage
# For iOS you also need to run:
$ npx pod-install
```

> We're also adding `@react-native-community/async-storage` as `expo-secure-store`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We're also adding `@react-native-community/async-storage` because `expo-secure-store`
```

does not work on the Web.

### ORY Kratos SDKs for React Native

> We also need to install the ORY Kratos SDK as well as the ORY Themes package and

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We also need to install the ORY Kratos SDK. We'll also be making sure the app looks beautiful by
```

> some fonts to make the app beautiful:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
installing the ORY Themes package and some fonts later.
```
It makes sense to mention other dependencies here if this were a h2, or if it is worded slightly differently, imo.

```shell-session
# The package "url" is needed as it is not natively available in React Native.
$ npm install @oryd/kratos-client@0.5.4-alpha.1 url
```

### React Native Environment Variable Support

Next we want to set up support for environment variables which we will be using
in the next section. You can either
[follow the Expo guide on Environment Variables](https://docs.expo.io/guides/environment-variables/#using-babel-to-replace-variables)
or do the following:

```shell-session
$ expo install expo-constants
```

Create a file called `app.config.js` in the project's root:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="js"
  title="app.config.js"
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/app.config.js"
/>

You can use this variable when initializing the ORY Kratos SDK:

<CodeFromRemote
  lang="js"
  title="src/helpers/sdk.tsx"
  src="https://github.com/ory/kratos-selfservice-ui-react-native/blob/master/src/helpers/sdk.tsx"
/>

### Fonts and Other Dependencies

> To make things a bit prettier, we are going to add some fonts and the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To make things a bit prettier, we are going to add the [ORY Theme](https://github.com/ory/themes)
```

> [ORY Theme](https://github.com/ory/themes):

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and some fonts:
```
